vise	vice; tool for holding work in place; clamping device
vision	eyesight; foresight; mental image produced by the imagination; experience of seeing the supernatural
visionary	produced by imagination; fanciful; mystical; showing foresight; N: one having foresight; one given to speculative impractical ideas
vital	full of life; animated; vibrant and lively; critical; of great importance; necessary to stay alive; of life; living; breathing; N. vitality; V. vitalize
vitiate	spoil the effect of; make inoperative; corrupt morally
vitreous	of glass; pertaining to or resembling glass; V. vitrify: change into glass; CF. petrify
vitriolic	causing sharp pain to the mind; caustic; corrosive; sarcastic; of vitriol; N. vitriol: sulphuric acid (which burns flesh deeply); bitterly abusive expression; caustic expression; CF. glass
vituperative	abusive; scolding; V. vituperate: berate; scold; rail against abusively
vivacious	lively or animated; sprightly
vivid	(of light or color) bright and distinct; evoking lifelike mental images; Ex. vivid red hair/description
vivisection	act of dissecting living animals
vixen	female fox; ill-tempered woman; CF. shrew
vociferous	clamorous; noisy; V. vociferate: cry out loudly (when complaining)
vogue	popular fashion; Ex. Jeans became the vogue.
volatile	changeable; of a quickly changing nature (as of temper); mercurial; tending to violence; evaporating rapidly; Ex. volatile character/situation in the street
volition	act of using one\'s will; act of making a conscious choice; Ex. She selected this dress of her own volition.
volley	simultaneous discharge of a number of shots; V.
voluble	fluent; talkative; glib; N. volubility
voluminous	having great volume (as of a garment or container); bulky; large
voluptuous	sensual; of or giving sensual pleasure; indulging in sensual pleasures; Ex. voluptuous lines; Ex. voluptuous life of the Romans; N. voluptuary: voluptuous person
voodoo	religion practiced chiefly in Haiti
voracious	ravenous; eating large quantities of food; exceedingly eager; insatiable; Ex. voracious animal/reader
vortex	whirlwind; whirlpool; center of turbulence; predicament into which one is inexorably plunged
vouch	give a personal guarantee; Ex. I can vouch for his integrity; N. voucher
vouchsafe	grant condescendingly; guarantee; Ex. vouchsafe your fair return on your investment
voyeur	Peeping Tom; person who derives sexual gratification from observing the sexual acts of others
vulgar	of the common people; deficient in refinement; not refined; coarse; Ex. vulgar display of wealth; N. vulgarism: vulgarity; crudely indecent word; CF. vulgarian: vulgar person; boor; lout
vulnerable	susceptible to wounds or attack; N. vulnerability
vulpine	like a fox; crafty
vulture	carrion-eating birds
vying	contending; CF. vie
wade	walk through a substance, such as water, that impedes movement
waffle	speak equivocally about an issue; N.
waft	move gently (in air or in seas) by wind or waves; Ex. leaves wafting past the window
wag	shake repeatedly from side to side; Ex. The dog wagged its tail; N: humorous person; wit
wage	begin and continue (a war)
waggish	humorous; mischievous; tricky
waif	homeless child or animal; Ex. waifs and strays
waive	give up temporarily; yield; N. waiver: waiving a right or claim; document that waives a right or claim
wake	trail of ship or other object through water; path of something that has gone before; Ex. hunger followed in the wake of the war
wallow	roll in mud; indulge in; (of a ship) roll in a rough sea; become helpless; Ex. wallow in the mud/luxury
wan	having a pale or sickly color; pallid
wanderlust	strong longing to travel
wane	decrease in size or strength (after being full); grow gradually to an end; Ex. The moon waxes and wanes every month; N.
wangle	achieve by cleverness or trick; wiggle out; fake; Ex. She tried to wangle an invitation to the party.
wanton	unrestrained; gratuitously cruel; willfully malicious; unchaste; sexually improper; promiscuous; Ex. wanton spending/killing; CF. having no just cause
warble	(of a bird) sing; babble; N.
ward	administrative division of a city; division in a hospital or prison; incompetent person placed under the protection of a guardian; V: guard; ward off: avert
warp	twist out of shape; N.
warrant	justification; written order that serves as authorization (esp. a judicial writ); Ex. search/death warrant; V: justify; guarantee
warranted	justified; authorized
warranty	guarantee; assurance by seller
warren	tunnels in which rabbits live; overcrowded living area; crowded conditions in which people live
wary	very cautious; watchful
wastrel	waster; profligate
waver	move or swing back and forth; be uncertain or unsteady in decision or movement; Ex. wavering between accepting and refusing
wax	increase gradually (as the moon); grow
waylay	ambush; lie in wait for and attack
wean	accustom a baby not to nurse; accustom (the young of a mammal) to take nourishment other than by suckling; give up a cherished activity; cause to gradually leave (an interest or habit); Ex. wean oneself from cigarettes
weary	tired after long work; V.
weather	pass safely through (a storm 
